The Project Gutenberg eBook of Guide to Fortune-Telling by Dreams, by
Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Guide to Fortune-Telling by Dreams

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: May 17, 2021 [eBook #65367]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Images courtesy of
             the Digital Library@Villanova University
             (http://digital.library.villanova.edu/))

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GUIDE TO FORTUNE-TELLING BY
DREAMS ***

Transcriber’s Note:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_), and text
enclosed by equal signs is in bold (=bold=).

       *       *       *       *       *

Multum in Parvo Library.

_Entered at Post Office as Second-Class matter._

Vol. I. OCTOBER, 1894. _Published Monthly._ No. 10.




Guide to Fortune-Telling by Dreams.


  _Smallest Magazine in the World. Subscription
  price, 50 cts. per year. Single copies, 5 cents each._

  PUBLISHED BY
  A. B. COURTNEY,
  671 Tremont Street, Boston.




ONEIROLOGY. The Science of Foretelling Future Events by Dreams.


Since the world began, “coming events have cast shadows before,” and
many of the important incidents in our lives are shown us in our dreams
if we only understood their full interpretation.

The following are a few of the most certain signs, and can almost
invariably be relied upon. For dreams not mentioned here, a pleasant
dream almost invariably indicates good health, successful ventures and
general prosperity, while evil dreams are forebodings of ill health and
other troubles.

Abuse.--To dream that you are abused and insulted is a certain sign
you will have a dispute with some person with whom you have business,
and, after such a dream, you should be particularly careful to be as
gentle and mild as possible, that you may not give those with whom
you have dealings any advantage over you; if you are in love, be
assured that some one has attempted to injure you with the object of
your affections, and that they have in a great measure succeeded. You
should, therefore, after such a dream, be particularly attentive;
eradicate the unfavorable impressions that have been made; if you have
a lawsuit, keep a sharp lookout after your attorney, for such a dream,
in that case, denotes that he is endeavoring to sell your cause; avoid
taking a journey by land, or a voyage by sea, for eight and forty
hours, because such a dream forebodes accidents by travelling.

Abraham.--To dream of Abraham denotes good fortune, accumulation of
riches; in love, many rivals; in law, many difficulties, an increase in
your business. He may give you some valuable information how to avoid
trouble.

Adam.--To dream of Adam is a particularly good omen, and brings good
fortune to the dreamer.

Adversary.--To dream you meet with an adversary denotes that you will
overcome some obstacle to your happiness; if you are a lover, you will
conquer some powerful rival, and be happy in your love; your affairs
are going on well; if you are in trade, an increase of business; if you
quarrel, and he overcomes you, it is a good sign, for you will conquer
all obstacles to your promotion, happiness and fortune; but, if you
conquer him, then you will never rise to any great preferment by the
means you are at present adopting; many things will miscarry with you,
but in general you will be fortunate.

Acquaintance.--To dream you quarrel or fight with an acquaintance is
unlucky; it forebodes a division amongst your own family, much to
the injury and prejudice of the dreamer; if you are in love, your
sweetheart will prove unfaithful, and marry some one else; if you are
in business, heavy loss will befall you, and you will disagree with
some of your best friends on the most trivial matters; if you have a
law-suit, your attorney will neglect you, your witnesses will be tardy
and backward, and finally you will lose your cause. Do not for some
time undertake a journey by land, or a voyage by sea, or enter into new
undertakings, for you will be unsuccessful; leave, if you can, your
present place of residence, and, above all, avoid lending money, for
you will surely lose it, together with the friendship of those to whom
you lend it.

Angels.--To dream you see angels in your sleep is a sure sign that one
is near you, therefore be mindful of the rest of your dream, for it
will come to pass pretty accurately; should you dream you see an angel,
or angels, then it denotes health, prosperity, and much happiness,
with many children who will turn out good. If you are in love, nothing
can be more favorable, and all your undertakings will prosper and be
advantageous to you.

Apparitions.--To dream you see a ghost, hobgoblin, spectre, and such
kind of things, is of a very unfortunate nature, they denote vexation
and disappointment; if you are in love, it is a certain sign of your
not being beloved in return. Some one is about to deceive you and
you are friendly with one who is your most inveterate enemy; do not
undertake a journey, for it will be unfortunate for you; be careful of
contracting debts, for such a dream forebodes great trouble through
some one to whom you shall owe money.

Asps.--To dream of asps denotes that you will become extremely rich,
and have great quantities of money by you; if you are in love, it
imports that your love will be returned, and that your sweetheart will
become through your means extremely wealthy.

Bagpipes.--To dream of this instrument of Scottish music indicates
that the dreamer will experience great trouble, and that he will labor
to little purpose; in love, it denotes that the marriage state will
be full of cares, and that you will in it experience much poverty and
distress.

Basin.--To dream you are eating or drinking out of a basin is a certain
sign that you will soon be in love, but without great care you will not
marry the first object of your affections; it denotes prosperity in
your trade; and to the farmer, a good crop.

Bathing.--To dream you are bathing yourself in clear water denotes
happiness, prosperity, and success in love; if the water is dirty, then
it foretells shame and sorrow, and a disappointment in love.

Beans.--To dream of beans is an unfavorable dream, it is the forerunner
of troubles and quarrels; if you are in love, expect a difference
between you and your sweetheart.

Bees.--To dream of them has a variety of interpretations according to
their different situations. To dream they sting you denotes loss of
good character, and, if you are in love, of your sweetheart.

To dream you see them at work is very lucky, and means success by
your industry; if you are in love, you will marry the object of your
affections. To dream you see them making their honey under your own
roof is the best omen in the world, it denotes riches, a good husband
or wife, good children, whatever you undertake will be prosperous.
For the rich to dream of bees is rather unlucky; but to the poor they
denote comfort, affluence and success.

Beheading.--To dream you see any one beheaded is a good omen; if you
are in love, you will marry the object of your affections; if you are
in trouble of any kind, it will speedily vanish; it denotes, also, that
you will see some friend who has long been absent, and that he will be
in good health.

Bells.--To dream you hear the bells ringing denotes a speedy marriage,
and that you will receive some very good news.

Buildings.--To dream of being amongst buildings denotes that you will
change your present place of residence, and that you will make many
new friends in life; if you are in love, it foretells your sweetheart
is about to remove at a distance from you, and that you will be in
danger of losing the affections of your lover by new faces.

Cats.--To dream of these domestic animals is indicative of much
trouble and vexation; it denotes to the lover that your sweetheart is
treacherous; if you keep servants, they are unfaithful and will rob
you. To dream you kill a cat denotes that you will discover a thief,
and prosecute him to conviction; expect, also, to lose your own liberty
through the insincerity of some pretended friend.

Climbing.--To dream you are climbing a tree denotes some honor in the
State, and success in life; if you are in love, you will marry your
sweetheart after a long courtship. To dream you are climbing up a very
steep hill or place foretells many difficulties and much sickness; if
you reach the top, you will get over all your difficulties, and recover
from your illness; but if you awake before you have attained the top,
you will be disappointed in love and other projects in life, and die in
your next illness.

Church.--To dream of a church is portentous of evil. If you are in
a church during divine service, you will be engaged in a lawsuit or
some quarrel that will very near ruin you; if you are in love, your
sweetheart is unfaithful, and prefers another.

Dancing.--To dream you are dancing at a ball, wake or entertainment
foretells that you will shortly receive some joyful news from a long
absent friend, or that you are about to inherit some unexpected legacy;
it foretells success and happiness in love; your sweetheart is kind and
true, and will make you very happy in marriage; increase of children to
married persons, and of business to those in trade.

Darkness.--To dream you are in a very dark place, or that you are in
the dark, is a very unfavorable omen; to the lover, it denotes the loss
of your sweetheart; to the trader, loss by debts, business; to the
farmer, bad crops; to the sailor, shipwreck and misfortune. To dream
you get out of darkness into light denotes good to the dreamer; if you
are in poverty, you will rise to riches and honor; if you are in love,
it denotes a happy marriage and many children, with an industrious
husband or wife; expect also to hear some glad tidings from a far
distant country.

Earthquake.--To dream of an earthquake warns you that your affairs are
about to take a very great change; if you see many houses tumbled into
ruins, then it will be much for the better; should the houses appear
to stand, then for the worse; for the lover, it foretells that your
sweetheart is about to take a journey, and that it is a chance if you
ever see each other again.

Eating.--To dream you are eating is a very unfavorable omen;
it portends disunion amongst your family, losses in trade, and
disappointment in love. To see others eating is of a contrary tendency,
and foretells success in all your present enterprises; that your
sweetheart is kind and faithful, and if you marry the present object
of your affections that you will grow rich, be happy and have dutiful
children.

Fall.--To dream you fall from any very high place, or from a tree,
denotes loss of place and goods; if you are in love, it surely
indicates that you will never marry the present object of your
affections; to the tradesman, it denotes a decline of business, and to
the sailor, storms and shipwreck.

Fighting.--To dream you are fighting denotes to the lover that you will
lose the object of your affections through a foolish quarrel; it also
forebodes much opposition to your wishes, with loss of character and
property. After such a dream you should leave your present situation,
because such a dream indicates that you will not prosper in it; to the
sailor it denotes storms and shipwreck, with disappointment in love.

Fire.--To dream of this subtle element denotes health and happiness
to the lover, marriage with the object of your affections, and many
children; you will be very angry with some one on a trifling occasion.
Burning lights descending, as it were from heaven, are a very bad sign;
it portends some dreadful accident--having your brains dashed out,
breaking your legs, getting into prison, or other strange accidents;
to the lover it also denotes the loss of the affections of your
sweetheart; to the tradesman bad fortune in business. To dream that you
are burnt by fire denotes great danger, and that enemies will injure
you.

Fishing.--To dream you are fishing is a sure sign of sorrow and
trouble; if you catch any fish you will be successful in love and
business; if you catch none you will never marry your present
sweetheart, nor succeed in your present undertakings; if they slip out
of your hands after you have caught them, the person you marry will be
of a roving disposition, and some pretended friend will deceive you.

Flowers.--To dream you are gathering flowers is a very favorable omen;
expect to thrive in everything you undertake, and that you will be
successful in love, marry happily, and have beautiful children; should
they wither under your hands, then heavy losses in trade; that your
sweetheart will die; or, if you are married, that you will lose your
husband or wife, and also your favorite child.

Fortune.--To dream you make a sudden fortune is a very bad omen; to
the tradesman it forbodes losses in trade and quarreling with his
creditors; to the lover, it denotes that your sweetheart does not
return your love. To dream you are acquiring a fortune is favorable, it
portends a good legacy and success in love.

Garden.--To dream you are walking in a garden is of a very favorable
nature; it portends elevation in fortune and dignity; to the lover it
denotes great success and an advantageous marriage; to the tradesman it
promises increase of business; to the farmer, plentiful crops.

Gifts.--To dream you have anything given you is a sign that some good
is about to happen to you; it also denotes that a speedy marriage will
take place betwixt you and your sweetheart. To dream you have given
anything away is the forerunner of adversity; and in love denotes
sickness and inconstancy in your sweetheart or partner.

Horses.--To dream of these useful animals is good; if you are mounted
on a fine horse, you will marry a rich person, who will do well, and
make you happy; it shows change in life; if you fall from your horse
difficulties will occur, and some unexpected disaster befall you.

Knives.--To dream of knives is a very unpropitious omen; it betokens
law-suits, poverty, disgrace, strife, and a general failure in the
pursuit of your projects; in love, it shows that your sweetheart is of
a bad temper, and unfaithful, and that if you marry, you will live in
enmity and misery.

Marriage.--To dream you are married is ominous of death, and very
unfavorable to the dreamer; it denotes poverty, a prison, and
misfortunes. To dream you assist at a wedding is the forerunner of
some pleasing news and great success. To dream of lying with your newly
married husband or wife threatens danger and sudden misfortunes, and
also that you will lose a part of your property.

Shoes.--To dream you have a new pair of shoes denotes much success in
life and triumph over your enemies; in love, a speedy marriage and
infidelity. In the married state, an increase of children. To dream
your shoes are worn out and bad, shows decay in circumstances and loss
of friends; in love, it foretells the infidelity of your lover, who
will marry another.

Silk.--To dream you see silk, either in pieces or for sewing, signifies
prosperity and success in undertakings; to the lover, it denotes a
sweetheart of an industrious disposition, good tempered, and very
faithful; in trade, it foretells increase of business, by means of
women. To be clothed in silk foretells honors and riches, but you will
quarrel with a rich neighbor, who will endeavor to do you mischief.
For a married woman to dream of being dressed in a silk gown, shows
her husband is fond of some one who will nearly ruin him. If a maiden
dreams of it, she will speedily see her lover.

Silver.--To dream of this valuable metal shows that false friends are
about you, and will attempt your ruin; in love, it denotes falsehood
in your sweetheart. To receive or pick up pieces of silver money, if
they are small, denotes want and a prison; if they are quarters, they
indicate the receipt of a small sum of money, and the acquisition of
some new friends; but if they are half-dollars or dollars, they denote
misery, a prison and failure in your undertakings, disappointment in
your love, and loss of law-suits, attacks from thieves and bankruptcy
in trade. If a woman with child dreams of silver, it shows she will
have a girl, but the child will grow poor.

Singing.--To dream you are singing shows that you will hear shortly
some very melancholy news; to the lover, your sweetheart is bad
tempered and unfaithful; to the tradesman, losses by sharpers. To dream
that you only hear singing and merry making shows that you will have
some agreeable news from a person long absent; if you are in a prison,
it foretells you will speedily regain your liberty.

Tombs.--To dream of being amongst the tombs denotes a speedy marriage,
great success in business, and the gaining of a lawsuit; also the birth
of children, and unexpected news.

Treasure.--To dream you find a treasure in the earth is very ominous;
it shows that you will be betrayed by your bosom friend; your
sweetheart is unfaithful and deceives you; if you should not be able
to carry it away, you will have some very heavy losses; if you have
lawsuit it will go against you by the treachery of your attorney.

Trees.--To dream you see trees in blossom denotes a happy marriage
with the present object of your affections, and many children who will
do extremely well in life; to the tradesman it denotes success in
business. To dream you are climbing trees denotes that you will make a
fortune, and rise to honors and dignities in the State. To dream you
are cutting down trees foretells the death of a near relation or dear
friend.

Walking.--To dream you are walking in a dirty, muddy place foretells
sickness and vexation; to the lover it denotes your sweetheart to be
bad tempered and unfaithful; to the tradesman it foretells dishonest
servants, and loss of goods by fire.

Water.--To dream you are drinking water denotes great trouble and
adversity; in trade, loss of business, and being arrested; to the lover
it shows your sweetheart is false, prefers another, and will never
marry you.

Wedding.--To dream of being married, or at a wedding, is a very
unfavorable dream, especially for lovers; it denotes the death of
some dear friend or relation, with loss of property and severe
disappointment.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MINSTREL SHOW; Or, Burnt Cork Comicalities.

[Illustration]

A new and varied collection of the best darkey wit and humor, as
recited and performed by the leading minstrels of the present day.
It contains Comic Songs, End Men’s Jokes and Stories, Conundrums,
Darkey Dialogues, Stump Speeches, Burlesque Lectures and Monologues,
Plantation Sketches, Interludes, Farces, Afterpieces, Negro Songs and
Dances, Banjo Solos, Songs and Marches, etc., etc. It is not only the
largest but the best collection of minstrel wit ever published, and
all who enjoy a good laugh will find it just the book they want. Among
the songs are: “Baby’s Got a Tooth,” “Just to Make it Pleasant for the
Girls,” “A Little Beard on a Young Man Grew,” “They’re After Me,” “Get
Thee Gone, Girl,” “Her Front Name Is Hanner,” “Good-by, Lize,” “Oh,
Lucinda!” “Quit Your Fooling,” etc., etc. It is a book full of fun and
laugh from cover to cover, and cheaper than going to the minstrels, for
you get as much as you would hear at half-a-dozen entertainments for
a fraction of the cost of one. It is a book of 64 large double-column
pages, bound in attractive paper covers, and will be sent by mail
post-paid upon receipt of only =Ten Cents=.

KEYSTONE BOOK CO., Philadelphia, Pa.

       *       *       *       *       *

Parlor Magic.

[Illustration]

This valuable textbook contains complete and exhaustive directions for
performing over one hundred amusing and mysterious tricks in magic and
legerdemain, including sleights with dice, dominoes, cards, ribbons,
rings, fruit, coin, balls, handkerchiefs, etc., etc., the whole
illustrated and clearly explained with 121 engravings. The directions
for performing these tricks are made so very clear by the aid of the
many illustrations given that any one may readily perform them, and
thus become a veritable wizard in his own circle of acquaintances.
Tricks which you have seen performed by professional magicians, and
which have seemed to you almost miraculous, are so clearly and fully
explained in this book that you may perform them with ease. Among
the tricks explained in the book are: “The Magic Coin,” “The Magic
Handkerchief,” “The Dancing Egg,” “The Domino Oracle,” “The Magic
Bond,” “To Swallow a Barber’s Pole,” “The Restored Ribbon,” “The
Magnetized Cane,” “To Eat a Peck of Shavings, and Convert them into
a Ribbon,” “The Wonderful Hat,” “The Pepper-Box Trick,” “The Bag of
Eggs,” “A Watch Pounded in a Mortar,” “To Pierce the Arm with a Knife,”
“The Glass of Wine Changed into a Shower of Rose Leaves,” “The Goldfish
in a Vase of Ink,” and many others. “PARLOR MAGIC” is a book of 64
large, double-column pages, bound in attractive colored paper covers,
and will be sent by mail post-paid upon receipt of only =Ten Cents=.

KEYSTONE BOOK CO., Philadelphia, Pa.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GUIDE TO FORTUNE-TELLING BY
DREAMS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
